---
layout: post
title:  "9 years"
excerpt: "It's been 9 years since I left college"
banner: https://res.cloudinary.com/vishnupadmanabhan/image/upload/v1530812615/hostel.jpg
author: "Vishnu"
date:   2018-07-08 00:01:00
categories: life
comments: true
---
It's been 9 years since I left college. Doesn't seem like a long time but college does seem like something that happened in a different lifetime. I say this because I clearly remember the last day of my stay in the hostel. It wasn't a pleasant experience. I had written a story based on this few years back in one of my old blogs. The first chapter was a recap of that day. I might reproduce that on this blog someday if I feel like.

In a human life, 9 years is a long time. If you live for 90 years, this is 10% of your lifetime. You come out of the college as a 20 something and the next few years are learning years. You learn much more than what you have learnt in the two decades before that. For me, it has been a phenomenal time. I am not saying that all of it was wonderful. There were some really crappy times, but everything has been a learning experience.

> Time flies. You never realise until it is past.

I learnt a lot about life and people throughout my college life and more than my academic studies, I consider that to be my education. So the money and time spent were worth it. If I could go back a re-live those days? Perhaps I'd just change the way I was and focus on things that matter and not give a shit about many of the dumb things I might have focused on. Probably would've been a more cheerful guy. But hey, no regrets. I am proud of what I am now, so whatever leads me to this is all great.

There were a lot of friends around who have grown apart and very few remain. People come and go, right ones do stay back longer and some of they stay forever as friends as family. I am thankful for that. I am thankful for the college and the _less than a perfect_ environment that it provided. Helped me in being strong and more adaptable. I can list out a number of things that were wrong, but I do not need to. Instead, I take it that it was my journey. My journey of leaving behind being a kid and being an adult although deep inside, you never really grow up.

Do I miss those days? Maybe not, but there are some moments that I wouldn't mind living again. Because they were fun. Maybe I just learnt to move on.