---
layout: post
title:  "Stop whining"
excerpt: "Are you a whiny kid? You need too stop!"
banner: https://res.cloudinary.com/vishnupadmanabhan/image/upload/v1538449564/hustledesk.jpg
author: "Vishnu"
date:   2019-01-26 00:01:00
categories: life
comments: true
---
This post is about something that I wanted to address from some time now. Might come across as a rant but that's exactly what this is. It's about the way everyone goes like _"I can't do (stuff) because of (Something/Someone)"_ or _"Damn! because of (Something/Someone) I am (fucked/screwed/damned)"_ etc. Getting straight to the problem - everyone is complaining about how things aren't working out for them. They find things to blame and take no responsibility at all. Things where their expectations from people/place/thing/situation aren't going as they wish. Instead of getting out of the situation by taking responsibility for themselves, resolve to whine and blame someone/something else.

Here are a few things you could do to stop being a whiner:

- **Be a problem solver**: When you come across a problem, instead of finding out the ways it is negatively affecting you or forcing you to come out of your comfort zone, figure it out. Find a solution that works for you. Instead, if you are gonna be on your sorry ass worrying and complaining about the change, no shit is gonna change.

- **Be with winners**:  For some reasons, if you decide to spend more time with whiners and complainers, your mindset is gonna be seriously damaged. Do yourself a favour and say goodbye to them.  It is okay if it causes a little friction but please take my word, you should start caring about you and seriously thinking about who you give your time and attention to. One set of people leave you motivated and high in energy and inspire you to do better in life. Other set pulls you down with all their sob stories. I am not saying you shouldn't lend a shoulder to them when they need you, but if that is the only thing you are doing, then it is time to tell them that Kansas is going bye bye!

- Surround with winner
- We are capable: 
- Believe in yourself
- Stop whining 
- Make it happen