---
layout: post
title:  "Being Selfish"
excerpt: "Everyone wants something from you, but you are selfish."
banner: https://res.cloudinary.com/vishnupadmanabhan/image/upload/v1538449564/hustledesk.jpg
author: "Vishnu"
date:   2019-01-16 00:01:00
categories: life
comments: true
---
The year comes to a close and this has been one of the most satisfying and eventful years in my life. In my 32 years, there have been some great years and some pathetic years. This year was on the former side. This is because I enforced some discipline in my life.

I have been podcasting with my brother for over a year and a half and have found an interest in photography as well. We recently hosted a podcasters' and listeners' meetup here in Bangalore and you can read about it [here](https://medium.com/o2pod/bangalore-podcast-and-listener-meetup-12-january-2019-786c2afd464b){:target="\_blank"}. My interest in photography is also pushing me to travel and see more places. I love photography, so much that I did some investment (as per my standards) into getting new camera gear. I love going out and taking pictures and [sharing them](https://instagram.com/neoelemento){:target="\_blank"}. So, the year has been great. Part of it is because I have been a bit selfish. Yes, _selfish_. Let me explain.

I was always a _"yes"_ guy during my early years. I mean the type of guy who likes to keep everyone happy by saying yes to things they want you to do. I always felt like if I say no, I would be offending a lot of people and this would lead to intense frustration and unhappiness on my part by _over-committing_ to things. There is that instant regret that grips you the moment you commit to something you are not sure about.

One of the most important thing I leanrt this year and also one of the most difficult one was to say "no". This means prioritising the need of the hour over someones request to do something that might not be important at all. I am not saying I avoided everything altogether. I did have fun, had trips with my friends and did attend some events. But all this was never at the expense of something important that needed to be done for that day.

The idea is not to stop having fun and stop hanging around with friends, the idea is to be very conscious of how you spend your time and to prioritise the steps you needed to take you closer to your goal for the day. This may or may not anger or irritate your friends, but is something that you have to do for your sake. If they are really your friends, they'll understand. Oh wait, we spoke about this recently in [Rupen Paul's](https://twitter.com/rupen_paul?lang=en){:target="\_blank"} **The Right Room Podcast**. Here it is:

[Embed]

