---
published: true
layout: post
title: 'iPhone 13 mini - small size, big gains'
author: vishnu
categories:
  - tech
image: 'https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1639220890227-f88ac9170598'
tags: null
published: false
---
When iPhone came up with a newer generation of iPhone SE, I felt that finally what I wanted had arrived in the market and it was time for me to give up on my amazing little Pixel 3a and move over to the ‘dark side’. 

### Old bottle, new wine
The SE 2020 edition felt premium and Apple had reused the iPhone 7 design but with a much faster processor and other improvements. The pricing was decent within iPhone standards and I naturally gravitated to it. 

It was a nice little phone, never slowed down for once, clicked decent photos and had Touch ID for security. Coming from an android phone that had Touch ID earlier, it was an easy transition, except that the sensor had moved from behind the phone to the front of the phone.

### Enter the 13 mini
After about a year of using it, iPhone 13 rolled in and I was happy to see an even smaller phone with the iPhone 13 mini model Mini has been a part of the 12 series as well, but at that time, it was too early for me to move over to another phone.

The 13 mini was smaller but with a larger screen, thanks to the smaller bezels, and had the same processor that the 13 Pro version of iPhone shipped with. So all in, it was a worthy upgrade. From the moment I got it, it was a fascinating feeling to own it.

I was not able to lay my hands on Midnight colour, which is what I wanted. Instead I got my Blue. It wasn’t exactly the shade of blue that I was expecting, but with a soft case on, it made not much difference.

### Size 
I loved the fact that the phone fit into my palm easily and I was able to use it with one hand. It isn’t difficult to reach the corners of the screen. 

The screen size was slightly larger than the SE I was used for but with the introduction of a new friend, who’s presence I eventually subconsciously ignored - the notch.

The size advantage meant that the phone fitted easily into my pockets and did not have to switch to wearing cargo pants with extra large pockets. It was very convenient.

### Performance
The small size never affected the performance of the phone. It was exceptionally quick and although did not come with a 120Hz screen, it still had a great screen and watching videos and photos are great experiences as ever.

I am not a heavy user of my phone, don’t play games or do any video editing. But for my use of making calls, watching videos and listening to music, podcasts and audiobook, this phone was an absolute beast.

To test how it handles games, I did download and test few of them and found no lag or issues of any sort.

### Camera
Something that I missed on the iPhone SE is the wide angle camera. This was useful to capture images of architecture or scenery and occasionally when you are out and about with a bunch of friends.

iPhone mini came with two camera, one the standard wide camera and an ultra wide. As with the case with any iPhone, cameras are great. I love having that extra room with the wide angle camera, absolutely useful.

### Conclusion
iPhone 13 mini is an excellent phone no just an excellent iPhone. If you are venturing into iPhone territory and prefer having a smaller phone, then this is a great choice. I have been using it for about 8 months and have never felt a need for a bigger screen or a merrier camera. ALthough I just with it had a telephoto camera.

If at all I upgrade to a plus, pro or pro max ever, it would be purely out of a want rather than a need. With iPhone 14 out, now might be a great time to get your hands on a nice little iPhone 13 mini.
