---
layout: post
title: "In Review: Sony NW-A306 Walkman - Classic Revival!"
author: vishnu
categories:
  - tech
  - audio
image: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1611001716885-b3402558a62b?q=80&w=3570&auto=format&fit=crop&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D
tags: audio
published: false
---
I though that owning a DAP, a *Digital Audio Player*, was absolutely unnecessary. Then I gave in.

This is a review of a device I never thought I would need for my music listening. After much contemplation, I recently purchased a **Sony NW A306 Walkman**. Since smartphones took off with increased audio caopabilities, music lovers have been primarily using their phones to listen to their favourite tunes and I was no exception.

Before manufacturers decided to remove the headphone jack from the phones, a cheap earphone connected to my phone was my source of music on the go, which at some point gave way to bluetooth neckband earphones, at a cost of audio quality of the music being played.

To beging with, let me share some of the key specs and then go into detail about what each of them mean to someone using this product on a daily basis.

### Specs

Here is a table of the key specifications of the Sony NW-A306 walkman, based on the information I found from various sources¹²³⁴.

| Aspect | Specification |
| --- | --- |
| Dimensions | Approx. 56.5 mm x 98.4 mm x 11.8 mm |
| Weight | Approx. 113 g |
| Connectivity | Wi-Fi 802.11 ac (2.4GHz + 5GHz), Bluetooth 5.0, NFC |
| Supported Bluetooth Codecs | SBC, LDAC, aptX, aptX HD, AAC |
| I/O | USB Type-C (USB3.2 Gen1), Stereo mini-jack, MicroSD card slot |
| Storage | 32GB internal memory (expandable by 2TB via microSDXC) |
| Software and OS | Android 12 |
| App support | All streaming apps available through Google Play Store |
| Display | 3.6-inch HD (1280 x 720 Pixels) TFT colour display with white LED-backlight |
| Hardware Controls | Touchscreen, Side buttons |
| Battery and Power | Up to 36 hours of continuous playback, 3.5 hours of charging time |


### Design and build quality

The Sony NW A306 has a compact and lightweight body, measuring 55.9 x 97.5 x 10.9 mm and weighing 103 g. It has a 3.6-inch touchscreen with a resolution of 720 x 1280 pixels, which displays album artwork, menus, and settings in full colour. The screen is responsive and bright enough for outdoor use, but it can be a bit clunky to navigate at times.

The device has a textured back that provides a good grip and a premium feel. It is made of aluminium and plastic, and it feels sturdy and durable. The device has a USB-C port, a 3.5 mm headphone jack, and a microSD card slot on the bottom. The power button, the volume rocker and the playback controls are all on the right side. The device also has a physical hold switch on the top, which prevents accidental inputs.

The device looks stylish and elegant, and it fits easily in palms and pockets.

#### The UI Lag

Let’s get it out of the way. If you have every thought of getting the Sony A306 DAP and done any research on it, you would’ve inevitably come across the fact that they do have a noticeable delay. If you re expecting an experience from the Android UI which comes with A306 similar to your sleek phone or any high end DAPs, you are going to be disappointed. Although I do not understand why a product at this price from a reputed company should have any sort of lag while using, I feel this might all come down to extending the battery backup. But there are some workarounds. Thanks for friends on the internet, here is something I tried which did make a marked difference in the UI response.

### Steps to reduce the UI lag in NW A306 Walkman

- Head to the settings within the android OS of the player
- Go to ‘About’ device
- Scroll down and you should see the build number
- Keep tapping the build number until you see an alert that says the developer mode will be activated. Tap again.
- Once developer mode is enabled, go back to “System” and “Developer Options”
- Find the following options and change from the default value to .5x for each of these:
    - Window animation Scale
    - Transition Animation Scale
    - Animator Duration Scale
- Restart the device

Once these steps are completed, you should see a difference in the responsiveness of the UI. It becomes a bit more snappier and responsive. Also, try running fewer apps and uninstalling or disabling unnecesarry apps.

But even with these changes it is nowhere close to a smartphone experience at all. There are many DAPs that have better performing UI than this one. So, a quick response UI might not be the key differentiator in the case of NW A306. But don't be disappointed, good things are coming. Read on.









Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@floschmaezz?utm_content=creditCopyText&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=unsplash">Florian Schmetz</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/a-cassette-player-with-headphones-attached-to-it-Rks6FTfX5OU?utm_content=creditCopyText&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=unsplash">Unsplash</a>
