---
layout: post
title: "Your goal is to be happy"
author: vishnu
categories:
  - thoughts
image: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1634463278803-f9f71890e67d?q=80&w=2970&auto=format&fit=crop&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D
tags: thoughts
published: false
---
Ever since I have grown up, time seems to be flying by. Back in the 90s, time seemed to crawl. It was a time when creativity was a part of my daily life. Either sketching a spaceship, making some model aircrafts out of materials available around in the house or spending hours reading books.

Reading was an absolute favourite thing for me. In a world devoid of social media and apps promoting pretty pictures, my imagination painted pretty pictures of far off lands through the author's descriptions.

Time has moved on and a lot has changed. But as Jeremy Clarkson says in one of the episodes of his  popular car show, every man is a 9 year old inside. I still find joy in some of the small things in life. 

Modern life seems to be pretty sophisticated. Seems like everyone is in a race. It is all about competition. At work, it is a competition to outperform your teammates, in life outside of work it is a pressure to keep up with that cousin who has a lavish lifestyle after moving to a beautiful Scandinavian country.

In the years that have follwed since I got my first job, I have realised that the moments where I could just sit and relax are scarce and spread far. I am not talking about sitting on a couch doing nothing or binging the popular series, I am talking about having the mind quiet and and peace. It is rare. There is always this other thing to take care of, or something that needs fixing in life. It is also hard to find someone who is content with their life.