---
title: "2025 - From Meh to Fit"
date: 2024-12-18
description: "Getting fit is my northstar for 2025"
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1636044988130-d97aad86426c
---


So, it’s come to this. The time has arrived for me to take a long, hard look at my extra kilos and politely tell them, *“Could you be any more unnecessary?”* For 2025, I am getting back to my ideal weight of 72 kgs and reclaiming my rightful place as a card-carrying member of the “fit-ish” crowd.

The Plan:
- Goal: Hit 72 kgs by March 31, 2025.
- Why: Because gravity and I have had enough of these extra kilos dragging me down.
- How: More protein, veggies, and water; less sugar. Basically, food that doesn’t double as a guilty conscience in disguise.

I’ve “started getting healthy” more times than Ross said “We were on a break”. But this time, I’m putting it out here. That means there’s no backing out, no excuses, and sadly, no sneaky night binges that “don’t count because nobody saw”.

The 3 (Highly Negotiable but definitely Non-Negotiable) Rules:
1. Eat Better: Welcome to the table, proteins and veggies! Sugar, take a seat in the back. Don’t call us, we’ll call you.
2. Move More: Walking, stretching, maybe a workout class or two where I don’t fake tying my shoelaces.
3. Hydrate Like a Boss: Apparently, water is life. Who knew?

Why? Because being healthy is underrated, and I refuse to huff and puff my way up a flight of stairs ever again. Plus, I’d like to stick around long enough to witness the next technology-will-destroy-us-all innovation. Priorities, right?

So, here it is, my official, no-way-out declaration that 2025 will be my year of transformation (minus the cheesy makeover montage). I’m coming for you, 72 kgs, armed with a salad fork and a reusable water bottle.

Here’s to the healthiest year yet. Let’s do this!
