---
title: "The reason I take pictures"
date: 2025-02-16
description: "Picture captures a moment in life"
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1519418683053-bebf0b4400d8
---


I take pictures. At least three or four days a week. But not because I want to be a photographer.

I’ve always been fascinated by cameras, maybe because growing up, we had a finicky one, sometimes it worked, sometimes it didn’t. And it used film, so every shot had to count. A single roll gave you about 30 photos, and you had to be careful not to waste them. Because of that, there are far fewer pictures of me as a kid than any Gen Z growing up today.

My nieces, who are only just over two, already have more photos on my phone than I probably have of my entire childhood.

At some point, I got caught up in the idea of photography. I bought a phone with a great camera, then a DSLR, thinking I wanted to be a photographer. But over time, I realized that I don’t. At least, not in the professional sense.

I take a lot of photos, but not for the aesthetics or the perfect composition. I take them for *memories*.

>“The best thing about a picture is that it never changes, even when the people in it do.”<br />– Andy Warhol

A photo is a moment in time, frozen forever. It’s a portal to the past, bringing back not just the image, but the feelings of that instant. To me, it’s like hearing an old song, one that’s deeply ingrained in my mind, suddenly transporting me back to a different time. A wisp of nostalgia.

Actually this video should be able to explain this a little better - [How to Remember Your Life](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GLy4VKeYxD4)

Sometimes, I scroll through my camera roll just to relive those moments. And every time, I’m grateful I captured them. I am also grateful to my wife who has encouraged me to capture these moments. She has made me realise that these are important.

Life moves fast. Most of it, you won’t remember. But photos help. They remind you where you’ve been, who you were, and how far you’ve come. So take more pictures.
