---
title: "Loss"
date: 2025-12-12
description: "trying to put the feelings of loss in words"
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1644665987145-4fc77beba9c5
---


In the past few days, I have sat down multiple times to put my feelings into words about Kittu's passing. I have failed. Sometimes, feelings cannot be put into words.

Although the thought of his passing loomed at the back of my mind for past couple of years as he was showing the signs of ageing and had difficulty in getting up and walking around, in my mind, he was eternal. He was always going to be around, curled up behind my chair as I work, placing his head gently on my lap when he needs attention and our morning walks. That is something I miss the most.

For me Kittu was my firstborn, and nothing or no one can ever replace him in my life. Do I have regrets? Yes, I wish I had spent more time with him, I wish I had expressed myself a little more. But what it's worth, he has had a pretty good life. 

His passing has taught me that life is precious, time is precious. I must not spend it holding grudges or overthinking petty things.

I miss him the same way I missed him the day he passed. Everything around the house reminds me of him. Every corner of the house is filled with his absence. The silence is deafening.

It is difficult to control tears whenever I find his hair somewhere in the most impossible of places, on my keyboard, inside the drawers and on my clothes. In a way, I do not want to clean them up. Those are the last of whatever physical form he has left.

I have spent days reading about other people's experiences of losing a pet, recurring theme is that you never forget them and the grief remains. I am prepared to carry that grief through the rest of my life. I feel honoured to be able to do that. In his honour, for having given us the gift of spending his entire life with us. Sharing happiness and selfless love, even when I was at my lowest point in life. 

I miss feeling him around the house, the sound of his feet trotting around, his occasional snoring and the vision of him sleeping peacefully and I will miss it for as long as I have life in myself. Such was his love.

>_Love you forever and ever Kittu!_ 
