---
title: "The *Two Lives* We Live"
date: 2025-06-01
description: "The two lives we live"
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1621973120262-d402efafbcd2
---

> Most of us have two lives. The life we live, and the unlived life within us. Between the two stands Resistance. - Steven Pressfield

There’s an old story about a young sculptor, who inherited a massive block of marble from his father. For years, he dreamed of carving a masterpiece, something the world would admire. But every time he picked up his chisel, doubt crept in.

“What if I ruin it?”
“What if I’m not skilled enough?”
“What if people laugh at my work?”

So the marble sat untouched, gathering dust. Days turned into years, and eventually, he grew old. One evening, he visited a renowned sculptor in the village and confessed his regret. The famous sculptor led him to his workshop and pointed to a brilliant finished statue.

“This” he said, “is my greatest work. But do you know what it once was?”

The sad sculptor shook his head.

“It was just a block of stone, until I began.”

He realized then that the masterpiece had never been hidden in the marble. It had always been hidden in him.

We all carry within us an life yet to be lived, the art uncreated, the book unwritten, the dreams yet to be fulfilled. And yet, Resistance stands in our way, disguised as fear, doubt, or the comfortable illusion of ‘later.’ But *later* is a thief. It steals from the life we could have lived.

Resistance is not a wall, it’s a mirage. It disappears the moment we step forward.

So here’s something to carry with you - The life you long for isn’t waiting for permission. It’s waiting for action. Pick up the chisel. Take the first step. The masterpiece isn’t in the marble, it’s in you.
